# CS-250

In order to implement user needs into a program I need to communicate with the client to see what they need included. This is typically in the form of an Epic which is a very large user story that us normally too big for the development team to develop without breaking it down into User Stories. User Stories are a brief way of defining and simplifying requirements into a format that can be easily understood by both developers and users. User Stories are written in the format: As a <role> I want to < be able to do something> so that <benefit>. Stories are written in functional terms - they define an expected result, but don’t tell the developer how to design the software to achieve that. Additionally, User Stories are given story points, a metric commonly used for estimation in Agile projects. It’s a way of sizing the level of effort associated with a particular User Story. Finally, the User Stories are added to the Product Backlog to tell developers what they will work on next.

  Typically, while developing a program, I would dive right into it and either plan too little of it ahead of time or not plan any at all. Agile has taught me to plan just enough, while being an adaptable programmer at the same time which will be useful in future programs. Another Agile process I will use in the future is breaking down the overall project. There are times I imagine what the end project may look like but get lost in the cluster of work needed. By breaking requirements down and even prioritizing them it makes programming process easier. Finally, Test cases are something i will use in future projects because while programming it was very useful to refer to the inputs and expected results.
  
Being a good team member in software development means having good communication, working off common goals and independency. Having effective communication is crucial to the success on the team so that everyone has the same understanding of what needs to be done, what’s already done and what needs to be done. There are many ways to have great communication practices such as Daily Scrum, Information Radiators and so much more. Working off common goals creates a great team environment as well. Understanding the principles behind a methodology rather than just focusing on the mechanics of how the methodology works helps overall to see the big picture in complex projects. Finally, being an independent team member doesn’t mean to be alone, in fact it’s important to be able to ask for help and even give help. Being independent in a software development team means that you can get work done without constant external resources. A successful Development team should be both cross-functional and self-organizing.
